Hello and welcome and this lecture we're gonna be binding the saving and loading of our save system
to the S and L keys.
So if I hit l It is going to trigger loading from our safe system.
And if I hit s is gonna trigger saving you can see I got a log message telling me where my save files
actually gone to and this is going to be all achieved through having a persistent prefab to deal with
saving in the same way as we have that for the fader.
Now let's dive in and see the particulars of why we want this approach.
Our saving system we currently have the saving system will talk to the different entities in our scene
which we do not currently have any entities in our scene.
But this is what it's going to look like.
And at the moment the saving system doesn't exist and asking where should exist how should exist.
Well what I'm proposing is that the saving system should exist inside of a saving prefab and we already
have a mechanism in place for us to have this prefab spawned and maintained across different scenes.
Namely if we go and have a look in game core we've got our persistent objects prefab which gets spawned
already has a fader in it.
We can add an extra object to this as well and that's going to be the saving prefab.
So the saving prefab needs something though in order to drive it because at the moment it exposes this
API to save and to load.
But there's nothing in our game that tells it to save or load.
Now at this time I don't want to go creating any UI.
So what I'm gonna do is I'm just going to bind some keys to it.
We're just gonna buy an S and L to do saving and loading respectively.
And that is going to require us just to introduce another component which is gonna be this saving wrapper.
Now it's gonna be our code.
It's going to live outside of the saving folder and it is going to be responsible just for doing those
little bits of maintenance and admin on our saving system.
Basically telling it when it should act.
The word wrapper in this context means that it wraps around the saving system providing a higher level
of abstraction to the rest of your game and that includes giving you things like key bindings.
So that's what we're gonna go ahead and create.
Let's first of all create our game object.
So I am going to rather our prefab I'm going to right click on persistent objects and go to 3D objects
and just create in fact just create empty.
So I'm going to rename this object to saving instead and I'm gonna pull it across in two game core section
and I'm going to open up the prefab directly so that I'm editing inside that second prefab so we know
that this stuff is going to be spawned once and only once and we'll stay alive between scenes.
Now inside this saving prefab what I want to do is go ahead and add some components.
So I'm gonna go ahead and add first of all the saving system which is going to be the core of things
going on here.
And then I want to also create a saving wrapper.
Now the saving wrapper I'm going to put in scene management is all really about scene management and
even if it's saving.
So I'm gonna go ahead and create a C sharp script called Saving wrapper like so and we can open it up
in Visual Studio code.
So the first thing I want to do is put this in a namespace.
So I'll take my saving wrapper Cut it out and do a namespace RPG dot scene management and I'm going
to paste in the saving wrapper in there.
Now the next thing saving wrap is going to have to do is it currently doesn't have anything and that
it needs to do on start.
So I'm going to remove that but an update is where we're going to want to bind our keys or listen for
our key events.
So I'm going to show you how we're going to do the load API call and then let you do the saving API
calls.
So the first thing is we do and if inputs dots get key down.
So that's getting where the key has gone down this frame.
We're going to do the key code dots and in this case I'm going to use key code L for load and then I'm
going to call to a load method which we do not yet have.
So let's optimistically put it in there and then I can create it with a control dots generate method
create my private method there.
And what we're going to want to do in this load method is to call to the saving system and tell it to
load and for that we're going to need some information.
So first of all to get the saving system we want to do a get component saving system and to get to the
saving system we need to actually use the saving namespace.
So let's go ahead and do that top of the class I'm going to use RPG dot saving.
So it's top of the file rather than top the class and we're gonna do a saving system.
So we're trying to get the components saving system and with that saving system.
What we want to call is the load method and we know that the load method takes a string which is the
save file.
Now what is that save file going to be.
Well in this case we're gonna keep things super simple we're just going to use a same name for everything.
So we're only going to use one save file.
So what I can do is I can create a concept string at the top of the file.
So it's going to be const string save file or if call it's a default save file in fact we're going to
set this to just be safe simple like that and I can then pass that in as the arguments to our load methods
put a semi cut on the end of the line and I can remove the comment now that we are doing it's pretty
easy to read.
That's clearly what it's doing.
So now I also want to remove this comment from line 13 we know what update is we don't need to be told
every time.
So now what I would like you to do is to do the exact same thing with saving calling to the saving method
of the saving system on a key press so a video and have a go I'm not gonna put up a challenge slide.
I think the definition is fairly straightforward and have a go okay.
Welcome back.
So I'm just gonna go ahead and do another if statement and update which is going to do the inputs to
get key down and it is going to do key code dot s this time for saving because I'm gonna be able to
remember that one fairly easily and we're gonna call to a save method again which I have not set up.
Now the reason I'm doing this not in line and splitting it out is because later on we're going to want
these saving rapid things to be called from elsewhere in our code potentially when moving between portals
intent.
That's coming up.
And that is what we.
The reason I'm putting them out separately now you might not you might think it's a bit early optimization
and it is but that's because I know what's coming up next.
So basically very much the same thing I've done there is we've done a get component saving system and
we've called Dot save on it instead of DOT load and we're still using that default save file as the
arguments are saved.
Tell it where it should be saving to.
Now what I want to show you is if we go over into the code there's not much that tells us it's so saving
and loading at the moment so we don't have any save the entities we don't have any components that are
implementing I saved Bell so there's no way that our system knows about the state that we have in our
game it's not magical it can't figure that out for us we have to tell it but one way that we can know
that our saving binding is working is if I go into the game and hit s well then it isn't going to work
until I put the saving wrapper on to our prefab.
So let's make sure that we do that.
So I'm gonna go to game core and saving.
And in here as well as saving system we need the saving wrapper on this prefab.
My mistake says go ahead and hit save now and go to our console and you can see that it said that it's
saving to this particular file.
Now you can go ahead and have a look in your file system and see where it has been saved.
And in fact you can even click on this log message and copy the path to use rather than navigating all
that way you'll be able see that there is a site save dot save file and that is where the data is going
to be put at the moment.
You should see that the size of that file is absolutely minuscule but it will grow when we have more
data and now seeing more characters and so on and so forth more levels and so on.
So in the next lecture we are going to be looking at actually getting some state into that save file.
We're going to figure out how we can expose the state from our components which the mover and health
using our Icesave rules and assign salable entities.
So I'll see you in that lecture.